tytuł: 42 Warsaw - a place, where a hotchpotch of ambitious minds meet
autor: Robert Szyman 
rozdział: english section
kącik: daily thoughts
wydanie gazety: luty 2025

Somewhere in the boundless universe, there is a white, spiral galaxy, which extends thousands of light years in width. Our diminutive, blue, precious, life-sustaining planet is located on the Orion Arm, the one that branches off the centre of the Milky Way. So is our coding academy there. It is a spot, somewhere in the middle of the bustling, urban jungle, where every single creature, whether it is an adult, a youngster, a professional or a rookie, can acquire new knowledge, get to discover themselves and experience something special. 

42 Warsaw is where anyone’s digital journey begins 
Last year, when I turned eighteen, I thought that applying for this tuition-free, gamified academy would be incredibly advantageous to me. Seeing that I still have not figured out a way, which would confirm my conviction of what I long to pursue in life, I made a decision to take up the challenge and give it a try. Now, there is this cliché - people affirm that you must be a mathematical genius in order to write programs for computers. You could not be more wrong. Back in kindergarten, I had a collection of calculators and I would carry them everywhere with me, so all the people were sure that Maths related stuff was going to be my métier. However, in primary school, I could hardly grasp anything and it turned into an animosity. I loathed it. Even right now, I would not call myself a Maths lover. But our lives are all about experimenting, musking up the courage and, well, being a bit ballsy. When the recruitment process was over, which took a month, I was so relieved and fearful at the same time and I puzzled if I would get in. After opening an email with results, I was bewildered to be accepted to the academy, yet I could not help but had mixed feelings.

Peer-to-peer, so just talk to others
Our school uses a very innovative method of learning. When you do your coding project and you are stuck on something or maybe you just need to consult a problem or a bug, you can always approach another person, doing their job. In my opinion, this is an amazing way to make new friends. In addition, from my observation, it makes you leave your comfort zone so that you actually make yourself talk to others and get to know plenty of incredible individuals and it gives a sensation that you are a part of a bigger community.

My own landing
As I have written above, walking into the world of coding seemed an insane idea in my case, cause I am a person who is rather into writing poetry or reading. But I must say that I find it really intriguing. Just the concept of us, humans, creating thousands of things, which can be then read and analysed by a computer afterwards really is otherworldly. During the Piscine (which is the recruiting time) I went through many ups and downs. It was not as perfect as I had imagined. There were days when I was joyful, motivated, ready to keep on moving and days, when I was so despondent, that I was ready to leave it all and quit. But even as someone uncertain, who did not know if they are doing right, my colleagues always bolstered me up and assisted me, so that I could broaden my knowledge and just keep on progressing. Even now as a student, I often become hesitant but it is the beauty of our lives. Discovering, trying, failing and getting up. Being a part of 42 also taught me how to fight for myself.

Applying
You can also embark on an adventure of coding yourself and, who knows, even become a future computer engineer? The only prerequisite is to be at least eighteen. Just visit the website: https://42warsaw.pl/en/how-to-apply/ where you will have to play two games (so sit in a peaceful place and dedicate some time for this), participate in the introduction meeting online, sign up for the intense, on-site Piscine recruitment process (which is the final hurdle) pass it and there you go! You can become a new student of the upcoming cohort and you do not have to be a skilled programmer or a computer lover either. Confront your inhibitions and go for it. 










